Preface
The vineyard idea was proven to be too difficult to implement because the external factors were too ill-defined. (The secularized version, with biblical references removed, is still the same idea, just with different presentation.) A lack of clear specification leads to difficulty in implementation.

However, as a fan of optimization solvers, I believe that optimization has its place in our hackathon project. Optimization has been used in the global supply chain to improve profit margins and reduce prices for consumers. And the chosen project idea, a personal finance planning app, is an app intended for end users. The app isn’t just an app for a vertical sector, it is an app for the average person. And the average person has yet to take full advantage of optimization solvers in any area of life.

Personal finance lends itself to optimization.

I’m not backing this point right now, instead deferring to the Scope of Optimization section.
Reiterating Basic Features
Reference: https://www.notion.so/SmartMoney-297cdd64030e8022986bf149ea7113fa

Attention should be paid to this subpage: https://www.notion.so/List-Page-29fcdd64030e80d4b346ed80f88dac28, as the subpage isn’t wholly generated by AI. This means there is more worthwhile material to build upon. From this point on, when the word “subpage” is used, it refers to the linked Notion subpage mentioned earlier.

Authentication: login, signup, password recovery. Upon successful authentication the user is redirected to the dashboard.
If it is clear that there is only one user accessing their data, this part could be entirely eliminated. The data could be stored on the client entirely.
One clear benefit is improved development speed.
Dashboard:
This is the heart of the application.
These statistics are featured prominently:
Balance (proposed, not present in subpage): Displays how much money the user has. This excludes the money dedicated to savings.
Total amount spent
The time period isn’t clear from the subpage. For the sake of implementation: it’s the amount spent in the current month. And the user can click on that amount to view a more detailed breakdown.
Saving goal
From the subpage, it is not clear what contributes toward the saving goal. For the sake of implementation: the user has to explicitly declare an amount as “saved”. There can be a button saying “Dedicate towards Savings”, and when clicked, the user can input the amount.
The total saved amount and the goal amount should be shown together. For example: Saving goal: 3000000 VND/6000000 VND.
If there is no goal set, the goal amount shouldn’t be shown. Instead just show the saved amount.
When clicking on the saving goal, the user can modify or delete the goal.
The user can also take money out of savings.
Monthly trend and Spending breakdown: It’s not clear what they are. Here is my proposal.
Monthly trend: A stacked bar chart.
“The stacked bar chart (aka stacked bar graph) extends the standard bar chart from looking at numeric values across one categorical variable to two. Each bar in a standard bar chart is divided into a number of sub-bars stacked end to end, each one corresponding to a level of the second categorical variable.”—https://www.atlassian.com/data/charts/stacked-bar-chart-complete-guide
So we have two categorical variables. The first one is the month. This is represented by the x-axis. The second one is the spending category. Each bar is divided into differently colored segments representing each spending category.
Spending breakdown: A pie chart for the current month. The chart doesn’t show how much is spent in the current month. The chart is split into pies, each pie is colored differently and represents a spending category.
Expense tracking: The user takes a picture of a receipt, then calls the AI API, then the API automatically extracts the amount of money spent and categorizes the expense. The user still has a chance to review and correct the information extracted.
Saving plan: The user inputs
Income
Fixed expenses
Goal amount
Saving duration (in months)
Habits
And this information is sent to the AI API, and then the user gets a detailed saving plan. The user can download the saving plan for later perusal. The app also offers to update the saving goal on the dashboard so the user can keep track of their progress.

For discoverability: the Saving plan page also has a button suggesting that the user can modify the saving goal without having to create a saving plan with AI. Clicking the button takes the user to the dialog to change the saving goal.
Scope of Optimization
There are many factors that a person might wish to optimize: transport costs, food costs, housing costs, etc. Depending on the person, the fixed factors and the variable factors can be different. Our app should grant the user agency to specify the factors they want to optimize, subject to the constraints imposed by the optimization solver.

The optimization solver is our third feature. We already have an expense tracking section and a saving plan section. Optimization can be another section. Similar to the saving plan section, this section also produces a document that the user can download for later perusal.

With optimization, the user can maximize their income or minimize their expenses. To be exact, it is to create a plan to maximize their income or minimize their expenses, as the software can’t carry out real-world actions on the user’s behalf. It is going to be a generic tool.

Example:

Niki holds two part-time jobs, Job I and Job II. She never wants to work more than a total of 12 hours a week. She has determined that for every hour she works at Job I, she needs 2 hours of preparation time, and for every hour she works at Job II, she needs one hour of preparation time, and she cannot spend more than 16 hours for preparation. If she makes $40 an hour at Job I, and $30 an hour at Job II, how many hours should she work per week at each job to maximize her income?

(https://math.libretexts.org/Bookshelves/Applied_Mathematics/Applied_Finite_Mathematics_(Sekhon_and_Bloom)/04%3A_Linear_Programming_The_Simplex_Method/4.02%3A_Maximization_By_The_Simplex_Method)

Such problems are common in the real world. To specify the problem, the user needs to specify:
The possible factors
The constraints on the factors
The factor the user wants to maximize or minimize

While there are many types of optimization problems that can be solved by solvers, both open-source and commercial, for this project we focus on problems that can be solved with linear programming. The above example is a linear programming problem.
We will use the PuLP solver to solve optimization problems. The solver runs on the backend server. The client has to send a request to the backend to solve optimization problems.

FINANCIAL OPTIMIZATION DEMO: https://gemini.google.com/share/020cd61603b2
NOTE: vibe coded, very buggy, it’s just a proof of concept… I’ll spend actual effort to code the actual app instead of just deferring all the work to AI.

Mixed integer programming: the UI is similar, just that some variables have to be integers, whereas the rest can be continuous.
